Migrations to the undiscovered parts of this huge continent, brought new
chance for those looking for brighter future. Settlements started rising on the way, where those tired settled and ended their mission, while those braver and eager for adventure, ventured on.
The Elves travelled northwest during their initial migration, crossing through the unexplored lands until they were stopped by the seemingly insurmountable desert. It was a realm of silence and solitude. They named it Luvani, a name conceived from their mother tongue, telling the essence of emptiness.
A millennium has passed since the birth of the Elves, when they, guided by the stars and a curious spirit, finally decided to cross the border of this silent world. It was less than a few days, when they arrived to the magnificent river Lumis. There, nestled on the coasts of the river, they laid the foundation of Nohenjo Daro, first haven beyond the enclaves of Altamere.
In the year 1541 BG, Nohenjo Daro emerged from the arid lands of Luvani, a sanctuary that would one day become the symbol of the dawn of the Human race. The settlement developed on the fertile banks of Lumis, that nurtured seeds of agriculture and the art of fishing. A century passed, and restlessness stirred the souls of many Elves. The unforgiving desert should not be the ending stop of their migration, they were telling themselves. One faction went northward, through the desert, while another was lured to the western shores of the continent.

Those brave enough, who dared to enter the silent desert storms and scorching winds of the Luvani were tested, and many souls fell and were claimed by the desert. Yet, with resilience and hope, the survivors emerged to see the beautiful terrain of the northern domains. In the year 1389 BG, on the coast of the North Stjarna sea, Veles was born. Another band of souls went further north, where the calm and beautiful waters of Volodia lake became home to Volod, mere five years subsequent. 

Second road from Nohenjo Daro, a stretch that led westwards, brought them to the majestic mountain pass and a river that flowed with a grace, its waters a hue of pearlescent green. This spectacle of nature’s art compelled a faction of the Elves to cease their journey. Here, between the sentinel peaks offering natural protection and the river’s flow offering life, they found a home. The settlement of Emerald Gate was founded in the year 1435 BG. The river, resembling a gem carved by the best artificiers from Altamere, was christened the Emerald River. The mountain pass, years after, earned the name of Emerald Crossing. 

Yet, for some, the journey did not end at the sanctuary of the Emerald Gate. The western lands called out. A portion found solace along the western ocean coasts, birthing the settlements of Yuzunu and Segmut. Another band of Elves heeded for the north, in a quest for the icy winds and snowy realms. Their journey led them to the grandeur of river Edon. Array of small settlements started sprawling all along the flow of Edon. With unity and collective strength, the city of Ulfheim emerged fifty years hence.
 
From the arid lands of Luvani to the green sanctuaries in the towering mountains, the coastal enclaves, and the icy lands of the north, the Elves carved realms of refuge and hope; the precursors to the story of civilization that would, one day, be written by the hands of Humans. Each settlement, a story; each migration, a chapter in the never ending narrative of existence.