Uncontrolled expansions and growing power of the Zenari Empire, set in motion a sequence of events that would challenge not only Zenari, but all other forms of life on the planet. The upheaval began with the sudden and mysterious illness that befell Emperor Kan Mon’ah, plunging him into a rapid decline that culminated in his early death, sending shockwaves throughout the Empire. In the wake of the emperor's death, a multitude of ambitious figures vied for the throne. However, it was Ner’thazal, the High Priest of the Mayek tribe, who was most feared and who garnered the biggest support. Swiftly and with calculated precision, through scheming and one small open confrontation, executed his rivals, and crowned himself the new Emperor of the Zenari Empire.

Meanwhile, in the far north, Hel tribe was one of the two tribes under Zachar’s influence. Only a portion of the Hel tribe joined Zachar’s ritual and became Storm Zenari. High-priestess Shahtani, ruler of the Hel tribe, realized this is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Using the turmoil as a strategic distraction, she summoned her priests and shamans and led them on a challenging journey northward, toward the unforgiving mountains. Shahtani managed to breach the celestial realm through a realm gate, defying the rules, directly confronting the gods. Once there, in a daring act of thievery, she seized the essence of Arcana from Malachai. Though Malachai was delayed in intervening, he managed to impose a devastating curse upon those who dared steal his essence, rendering them mute for the remainder of their lives. This act of retribution served as a chilling reminder of his power.

In the midst of this chaos, Inis, who had long considered herself the protector of all Zenari tribes, was consumed by fury and despair. She turned to Lea, trying to force her to banish Malachai from the Celestial plane. Lea, following the situation and the power of Inis and Zenari, took Malachai's side, and urged Inis to dismantle the Zenari Empire. Inis felt betrayed, but she realized that if the elements intervened, they would have no chance. She needed a plan. Inis organized gods on her side under a unique name, Eldritch Synod, or just Synod. She then ordered Ner’thazal and Shahtani to delve deeper into the secrets of elements, giving them immense power and an ability to summon the army of elementals. She sent word to half-giant tribes, promising them the parts of Heg Dragal, and then proceeded to finalize the most important part of the plan - closing the astral gates. Inis realized that closing the gates would give her enough time to subdue Elves and other gods to her will. She knew that if Solarion falls, humans and other races would be no threat to her complete domination. The fall of Solarion would lead to Zenari armies marching into the Celestial realm, and capturing or killing other gods. Synod spread around the world, and in no time, managed to close all of the Astral gates, however, not before Lea have sent the message to elemental forces, asking for their help. 

The elements, however, were slow to react. The first Zenari troops crossed the Valdanis River, breaching into elven lands.

Meanwhile, Inis and the Synod succeeded in sealing the gates to Ardeo, consolidating their hold over the Material plane. Nonetheless, the elemental forces managed to send a crucial message to Malachai, urging him to retrieve a hidden scroll from the depths of the North Stjarna Sea. This scroll, capable of awakening dragons, was the last hope against the now unstoppable power of the Synod and the Zenari Empire.