In the early beginnings, first Zenari tribes settled next to the jungles in the south-western reaches of the continent. Their first settlements were pretty simple, reflecting their coexistence with nature. Being fast and agile, Zenari were adept hunters. Their immense respect for nature, knowing that each creature plays a vital role in this world’s existence, took them away from unnecessary killing. Killing beasts for fun was banned across the whole Zenari society. Using their profound knowledge of the earth, they preserved the soil, growing and nurturing a vast variety of different plants and trees. The jungle, unexplored realm of different species and life, became a source of resources and sanctuary for their people. Within the overgrown trees, they cherished the art of woodworking, crafting an array of tools, building small outposts and cabins, which they afterwards used for hunting or scouting. They were masters and guardians of all of nature, and they never took its blessing for granted.

On the outskirts of the jungle, on its most southern parts, their biggest settlement Maanar-Kin (or in their own language, Protector of Life) started growing and expanding, abundant with resources, attracting nearby tribes. 

Zenari tribes took element sigils as their display on the banners, clothes, and buildings. Each symbol was a tribute to the very forces that shaped their lives. These symbols served not only as emblems but as sources of guidance and protection. Zenari celebrated specific occasions of importance for their tribe, giving tributes in their name. In the city center of the sprawling Maanar-Kin, K’izik tribe, architects of the city, raised a temple as a sanctuary and a place of worship for their people. Far northeast inside the dense jungles and imposing mountains, on its own solitary path, Hel tribe had their banners carrying the element of air.

Going south, tribes that populated desolated lands of Ekresh, were in heavy never-ending  conflict. The Ixil tribe, positioned to the West, and the Atash tribes, scattered across the eastern reaches, found themselves constantly clashing over the scarce resources. All of the tribes in the Ekresh desolace followed the element of fire. 

Southeast of the Maanar-Kin, examples of strength and resilience, the Dulgum tribe found their ways in the mercy of the earth itself. Far to the east, where the river K’uhad flowed into the great North Stjarna sea, the mercantile Mayek tribe discovered their first settlement, a humble village that would soon grow into the great city of Aghanat.